.TH iris-wandMouse 1 "February 2011"

.SH NAME
iris-wandMouse

.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B iris-wandMouse 
[ --help ] [ --button buttonShm mask num ] [ --usleep t ] [ --wand wandShm ] [ file ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBiris-wandMouse\fR loads files from from the command line and the
IRIS_FILES envvar, and a single iris::Window object should be created.  

In a loop it then reads the specified wand's position and orientation from
DTK shared memory and stuffs X11 cursor motion commands so the X11 cursor
tracks the wand's intersection with the specified iris::Window.

It is also given an X11 button number and the name of a DTK shared memory
file and a mask value, so that X11 button events can be stuffed.  This allows
the wand and buttons to interact with X11 GUIs displayed on the specified
Window.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
--help
.br
Print the usage message and exit

.TP
--button \fIbuttonShmName mask N\fR ...
.br
Specifies the name of the shared memory file from which to read button
values, \fIbuttonShmName\fR, and a mask value \fImask\fR, and a X11 button number
\fIN\fR.  When the shared memory file value ANDed with the mask changes
state from zero to non-zero a X11 button press event is generated.  A button
release event is generated when the shared memory value ANDed with the mask
changes from non-zero to zero.

Multiple --button options can be specified if needed.

If the --button option is not given, buttons are read from the shared memory file
"buttons", masked with 2, and the X11 button number 1 is used. 

.TP
--usleep \fIt\fR
.br
Specifies the number of microseconds to sleep at the end of each loop.  If
not given, iris::GetUsleep() is used.

.TP
--wand \fIwandShmName\fR
.br
Specifies the shared memory segment to read for wand data, 16 doubles
representing a coordinate transformation.  If not given, "wandMatrix" is used.


.SH AUTHOR

.PP
John Kelso, kelso@nist.gov
.br
NIST High Performance Computing and Visualization Group
.br
February 2011
.br
\fBhttp://www.nist.gov/mcsd/hpcvg/\fR
 
