.TH iris-viewer 1 "February 20101"

.SH NAME
iris-viewer

.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B iris-viewer
[--examine] [ --setname ] [--background r g b] [ --scene file ... ] [ --nav
file ... ] [ --ether file ... ] [ --world file ... ] [ --log ] [ --logfile
filename ] [file ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBiris-viewer\fR is the basic IRIS file viewer. It loads models under IRIS scenegraph nodes, plus has a few more options to implement commonly used commands, such as the examine and window background color commands.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
--examine
.br
Specifies that the nodes under the world node will be scaled to have a
bounding sphere with radius 1, and translated to have a bounding sphere
center of 0 0 0.

.TP
--setName
.br
Specifies that the nodes loaded by each input file will have their node name
set to the name of the name of their input file if their node name is blank. 

.TP
--background \fIr g b\fR
.br
Specifies the window background color; \fIr g b\fR are between 0 and 1.

.TP
--scene \fIfile ...\fR
.br
Specifies a list of files to be loaded under the scene node.

.TP
--ether \fIfile ...\fR
.br
Specifies a list of files to be loaded under the ether node.

.TP
--nav \fIfile ...\fR
.br
Specifies a list of files to be loaded under the nav node.

.TP
--world \fIfile ...\fR
.br
Specifies a list of files to be loaded under the world node.

.TP
--log
.br
Specifies that logging should be enabled at startup.

.TP
--logfile \fIfile\fR
.br
Specifies the name of the log file. If not given a default file name will be used.

.TP
file ...
.br
Specifies a list of files to be loaded under the world node.

.SH LOG FILE FORMAT
A log file contains details about the internal operations of an IRIS
process. It can be useful for evaluating performance problems, debugging crashes, etc.

Each file of the log contains:

.IP \[bu] 2
elapsed time
.IP \[bu]
delta time since last log entry
.IP \[bu]
frame number
.IP \[bu]
description of what happened

.P
If the frame number is 0 or 1 the times are zero, as the OSG timers are
reset when windows are realized at frame 1.

.SH AUTHOR

.PP
John Kelso, kelso@nist.gov
.br
NIST High Performance Computing and Visualization Group
.br
February 2011
.br
\fBhttp://www.nist.gov/mcsd/hpcvg/\fR

