.TH iris-DCS 1 "February 2011"

.SH NAME
iris-DCS

.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B iris-DCS
nodename [ -- help ] [ --matrix ] [ --translate x y z ] [ --euler h p r ] [ --quat x y z w ] [ -- scale x [ y z ] ] [ --center [ 0 0 0 ] ] [ --bound [ 1 ] ] [ --examine ] [ --load file ... ] [file ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBiris-DCS\fR prints the IRIS control commands to create a DCS with the specified geometric
transformations. If files are specified, commands are generated to load the
files under the DCS. The output of \fBiris-DCS\fR can be saved in a iris file and
loaded by IRIS.

The supplied transformations are compounded into a single DCS
transformation, so the order of the transformations matters, and
transformations can be repeated if needed.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
nodename
.br
The name of the DCS node.

.TP
--help
.br
Print the usage message and exit

.TP
--matrix
.br
will generate a MATRIX control command instead of the default DCS command

.TP
--translate \fIx y z\fR
.br
Translates by \fIx y z\fR

.TP
--euler \fIh p r\fR
.br
Rotates by the Euler angle \fIh p r\fR

.TP
--quat \fIx y z w\fR
.br
Rotates by the quaternion angle \fIx y z w\fR

.TP
--scale \fIx\fR [ \fIy z\fR ]
.br
Scale by \fIx y z\fR.  If \fIy z\fR omitted a uniform scale is applied

.TP
--center [ \fIx y z\fR ]
.br
Translates the loaded files to have a bounding sphere center of \fIx y z\fR.  If \fIx y z\fR are omitted, 0 0 0 is used.

.TP
--bound [ \fIr\fR ]
.br
Scales the loaded files to have a bounding sphere of radius at \fIr\fR.
If \fIr\fR is omitted, 1 is used.

.TP
--examine
.br
Translates and scales the loaded files to have a bounding sphere of radius 1
and a bounding sphere center of 0 2 0.

.TP
--load \fIfile\fR ...
.br
Specifies a list of input files.  This option is needed if optional
parameters are omitted before the list of files to load, so the parser will
know when it has reached the end of option's parameters.

.TP 
file ...
.br
A list of input files

.SH AUTHOR

.PP
John Kelso, kelso@nist.gov
.br
NIST High Performance Computing and Visualization Group
.br
February 2011
.br
\fBhttp://www.nist.gov/mcsd/hpcvg/\fR
 
